
                     Ferrari electronic GmbH


Ferrari electronic GmbH provides standard software and hardware 
products as well as customer specific solutions. 

For customer specific and OEM developments, we can offer you com-
plete turnkey systems, or work with you in all stages of product 
development, from the specification through hardware and software 
implementation. We provide consulting, CAD schematic design, CAD 
layout services, and small to medium volume manufacuturing on the 
hardware side, as well as consulting, design, and implementation 
of complete software systems or single modules. 

Our main field of work is telecommunications, with current
developments ranging from Fax G3 and G4, through Modems and Teletex
equipment, to ISDN solutions.

For more information, call or write:

         Ferrari electronic GmbH
         Ruhlsdorfer Strasse 138
         D-14513 Teltow
         Germany
         Phone: (+49-3328) 474 626
         Fax:   (+49-3328) 438 04-0


                     ferrariFAX FAX Product Line


ferrariFAX single - Fax Processor Card with software

   CAS-compatible processor-based fax card. Can operate in PC/XT/AT bus
   computers (up to four cards per bus).
   A 16-bit processor, 512k RAM, and FIFO bus interface for high speed 
   data exchange minimize host processor loading, and allow minimal TSR 
   size (approx. 30k) while supporting full background send and receive 
   without disturbing foreground applications, including Microsoft 
   Windows 3.0/3.1 in all modes.
   G3 standard, 9600 bps with fallback to 7200, 4800, and 2400 bps.

   Includes SAA-based DOS and Windows software (both versions share
   the same user interface), and a Windows 3.1 printer driver to allow 
   sending from any Windows application.
   An optional HP-Laserjet emulation module provides full font and
   graphics support for DOS-based applications.
   In addition, all CAS-based software packages (PC-Tools 6.0, 
   Fax-It for Windows, WinFax, etc.) can be used.

   A UNIX version is available through netCS.

   The card has passed postal certification for Germany, Austria,
   and Switzerland.


ferrariFAX Net - Simple FAX Network Software

   ferrariFAX Net is a set of TSRs that routes CAS calls over
   Netbios or Novell LANs, allowing a single ferrariFAX card to
   be shared in a network. No dedicated server is required.
   Reception is possible on the server only, transmission is on-line,
   i.e. stations sending a fax must be running.


ferrariFAX Server - Advanced FAX Network Software

   ferrariFAX Server is a full network solution for Netbios and
   Novell LANs. It supports up to 250 users (up to 64 concurrent
   users) per server, up to four cards per server, and multiple 
   servers per net. Password protection and automatic routing of
   incoming faxes provide privacy. Routing can be based on several
   criteria, like receiver name, or the Fax ID of the sender. In
   conjunction with ferrariFAX ISDN, faxes can also be routed using
   the called number.
   The software is currently in Beta test, and will be shipped Q3/93.


ferrariFAX ISDN - Fax Processor Card for G3 fax over ISDN

   Providing the same basic functionality and host interface as the analog
   card, the ISDN card offers additional features especially useful
   in conjunction with ferrariFAX Server. Incoming faxes can be
   automatically routed to recipients based on the dialling
   information.
   The current design supports one B-channel per card, two cards can
   be combined to utilize the full capacity of the ISDN line.
   Both the point-to-point and point-to-multipoint variants of the
   German ISDN protocols are supported, Euro-ISDN will be supported 
   as soon as it is introduced.
   The card is currently in Beta test, and will be shipped Q3/93.

